ENH: Include QA/QC of unprocessed data (#350)
TheAxonLab/hcph-sops: docs/data-management/mriqc.md

        --output ./derivatives/mriqc-23.1.0 \
        "{inputs} {outputs} participant --session-id ${lastsession} -w ${HOME}/tmp/hcph-derivatives/mriqc-23.1.0 --mem 40G"
    ```

> - [ ] Check that *MRIQC* generated all expected derivatives. For each session, you should have the following files:

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] Check that *MRIQC* generated all expected individual reports.
    For each session, the following files must be generated:
```

>     ``` {.shell hl_lines="22-23 40-41 58-59"}

Author: I don't think you want to highlight anything
```suggestion
    ``` text
```

    derivatives
        ├── mriqc_23.2.0
        │   ├── dataset_description.json
        │   ├── logs
        │   ├── sub-001
        │   ├── sub-001_ses-001_acq-highres_dir-AP_dwi.html
        │   ├── sub-001_ses-001_acq-original_T2w.html
        │   ├── sub-001_ses-001_acq-undistorted_T1w.html
        │   ├── sub-001_ses-001_acq-undistorted_T2w.html

>         │   ├── sub-001_ses-001_task-bht_dir-AP_part-mag_bold.html
>         │   ├── sub-001_ses-001_task-bht_dir-AP_part-phase_bold.html
>         │   ├── sub-001_ses-001_task-qct_dir-AP_part-mag_bold.html
>         │   ├── sub-001_ses-001_task-qct_dir-AP_part-phase_bold.html
>         │   ├── sub-001_ses-001_task-rs_dir-AP_part-mag_bold.html
>         │   ├── sub-001_ses-001_task-rs_dir-AP_part-phase_bold.html

Author: ```suggestion
        │   ├── sub-001_ses-001_task-bht_dir-AP_bold.html
        │   ├── sub-001_ses-001_task-qct_dir-AP_bold.html
        │   ├── sub-001_ses-001_task-rest_dir-AP_bold.html
```

    ```

> ??? warning "Not all *MRIQC* derivatives were generated"
> 
>     - [ ] If some derivatives are missing, it is a sign that *MRIQC* encountered an error. Identify what failed in the "About > Errors" section of the visual report or in the log of the *MRIQC* run.
>     - [ ] If you could find the solution to the problem, re-run *MRIQC* on that particular subject implementing this solution.
>     - [ ] In case you do not understand the error message, search for associated keywords in the [issues of the *MRIQC* github repository](https://github.com/nipreps/mriqc/issues); it is likely someone else experienced the same problem before you and reported it. The solution might be documented in the issue. Don't forget to check closed issues!
>     - [ ] If that did not help, you might find help on [NeuroStars](https://neurostars.org/).
>     - [ ] If no issue has been opened regarding this error and you did not find answer in NeuroStars, then open an issue in the *MRIQC* github repository. Your description of the problem need to be as complete and detailed as possible to help the maintainers identify the problem efficiently.
> 

Author: If the visual reports are not generated, you cannot check inside them. Let's move that to later (when we have already opened the report), and check here the things you can right away:

```suggestion
    ??? bug "*MRIQC* failed to produce all the expected visual reports"

        Depending on the specific error condition hit by *MRIQC*, some visual reports may not be generated at all.
        
        - [ ] Check for corresponding *crash files* under the `logs/` directory under the output folder.
        - [ ] Address the issue (e.g., insufficient disk space) and re-run *MRIQC*.
            If the issue is unclear, search for similar problems reported previously in the [issues of the *MRIQC* GitHub repository](https://github.com/nipreps/mriqc/issues).
            The solution could be documented in some existing issue opened by a user who experienced the same problem before you and reported it.
            Don't forget to check closed issues!
            If that did not help, you might find help on [NeuroStars](https://neurostars.org/).
        - [ ] Open a new issue in the *MRIQC* GitHub repository if all the above fails.

- [ ] Check that the `group_{T1w,T2w,bold,dwi}.tsv` file contains the image quality metrics (IQMs) for all the expected inputs (one row per individual run at the input).
```

Reviewer: true ahah XD

- [ ] Push the new derivatives to the remote storage.
    ```shell
    datalad push --to ria-storage
    datalad push --to origin
    ```

## Visualizing *MRIQC*'s individual reports

Following our protocols<sup>[1]</sup>, the quality of unprocessed images MUST be assessed before executing any processing (e.g., *fMRIPrep* or *dMRIPrep* for preprocessing).
In addition, *MRIQC* is executed prior any further processing step considering our preliminary findings regarding *defacing*<sup>[2]</sup>.

### Assessing anatomical images (T<sub>1</sub>-weighted and T<sub>2</sub>-weighted)

> - [ ] Open each *MRIQC* report on a current Web Browser (*Google Chrome* is preferred).

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] Open each *MRIQC* report on a current Web Browser (*Google Chrome* is preferred).
- [ ] Check that the visual report is complete when you open it.

    ??? bug "A visual report is incomplete"

        - [ ] Identify what failed in the "About > Errors" section of the visual report.
        - [ ] Address the issue (e.g., out-of-memory when running a container) and re-run *MRIQC*.
            Proceed as in the previous case by finding documentation on the *MRIQC* repository or NeuroStars.

```

- [ ] Visualize the first mosaic (background-enhanced mosaic) and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#background-enhanced-mosaic)
- [ ] Scroll down to the zoom in the brain mask mosaic and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#zoomed-in-brain-mosaic)
- [ ] Assign a quality rating and indicate artifacts with the *Rating widget*.

>     To assign a quality rating, follow the [QA/QC criteria]() stated below.

Author: missing link, also the criteria are on a different document (not below)

- [ ] Download the rating file as a JSON and add it to the derivatives dataset.

!!! warning "Immediately report images deemed *exclude*, as an issue in the dataset's repository"

### Assessing functional images

> !!! danger "Insufficient quality of an fMRI run requires recalling the session"

Author: ```suggestion
!!! danger "Insufficient quality of an RSfMRI run requires recalling the session"
```

Author: as per our discussion today

    - [ ] Immediately report images deemed *exclude*, as an issue in the dataset's repository.
    - [ ] Proceed to scheduling an extra session after the initially-planned scanning period.

#### RSfMRI
- [ ] Open each *MRIQC* report on a current Web Browser (*Google Chrome* is preferred).

> - [ ] Visualize the first mosaic (BOLD average) and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#bold-average)

Author: The new reports show the standard deviation first and then the carpet plot. Please check them :)

- [ ] Scroll down to the standard-deviation (std) mosaic and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#standard-deviation-mosaic)
- [ ] Scroll down to the background noise mosaic and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#background-noise-mosaic)
- [ ] Scroll down to the fMRI summary plot and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#fmri-summary-plot) as well as [the exclusion criteria specific to the BHT](qaqc-criteria.md#resting-state).

#### QCT
- [ ] Open each *MRIQC* report on a current Web Browser (*Google Chrome* is preferred).
- [ ] Visualize the first mosaic (BOLD average) and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#bold-average)
- [ ] Scroll down to the standard-deviation (std) mosaic and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#standard-deviation-mosaic)
- [ ] Scroll down to the background noise mosaic and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#background-noise-mosaic)

> - [ ] Scroll down to the fMRI summary plot and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#fmri-summary-plot) as well as [the exclusion criteria specific to the BHT](qaqc-criteria.md#quality-control-task) 

Author: I think we should look at the QCT the first:
- to train our eye
- to identify sessions where fMRI may have problems that went beyond the qct

> #### BHT

Author: I think we should evaluate the bht the second, for similar reasons.

- [ ] Open each *MRIQC* report on a current Web Browser (*Google Chrome* is preferred).
- [ ] Visualize the first mosaic (BOLD average) and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#bold-average)
- [ ] Scroll down to the standard-deviation (std) mosaic and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#standard-deviation-mosaic)
- [ ] Scroll down to the background noise mosaic and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#background-noise-mosaic)
- [ ] Scroll down to the fMRI summary plot and apply the [exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#fmri-summary-plot) as well as [the exclusion criteria specific to the BHT](qaqc-criteria.md#breath-holding-task) 

## Visualizing *MRIQC*'s group reports

### Assessing functional images
- [ ] Open the *MRIQC* group report on a current Web Browser (*Google Chrome* is preferred).
- [ ] Visualize the IQMs distributions and apply the [exclusion critera](qaqc-criteria.md#group-report) for all BOLD scans and apply [these exclusion criteria](qaqc-criteria.md#group-report-1) to RSfMRI.

### Assessing diffusion images

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> !!! danger "Insufficient quality of a dMRI run requires recalling the session"

Author: Not sure we want to do this, I think we can drop dMRI sessions without collecting a full session again.

Reviewer: I was thinking the point was to be able to compute FC and SC for each session.
As such, why do we recollect a session in case of RSfMRI exclusion but not dMRI?

Author: Statistical power

Reviewer: So we expect effect sizes to be smaller in FC than in SC?

Reviewer: Let's move this to an issue, to be able to close this PR.
